---
title: "Finland"
date: 2022-08-18
---

Finland is part of Scandinavia and shares borders with Norway, Sweden, and Russia. It has a population of around 5.5 million. Finland has more than 187 thousand lakes, and the country is 70% forest. The Baltic sea is south and southwest of the country.  

Finland is famous for a variety of things. It’s known for being the Happiest country in the world, as well as having the best education system and the cleanest air. The video game Angry birds originated in Finland as well. Saunas are also something that Finland is known for. There are about 1.5 million saunas in Finland, even though the entire population of the country is only a little less than 3 times that. The currency used in Finland is Euro, and most people speak Finnish, Swedish, or English. The capital of Finland is Helsinki. The flag of Finland is a white field bearing a blue cross. The white colour represents snow, and the blue cross represents the sky and the many lakes in Finland. 

One very amusing holiday in Finland is National Sleepy Head Day. Everyone in the family sleeps without anyone else waking them up, but the last person to wake up is thrown into a nearby lake! Traffic violation fines in Finland depend on how much you earn. A man who had a yearly income of 7 million euros was charged 116,000 euros in 2022(this man was the CEO of Nokia). In the summer, the sun doesn’t go below the horizon, and in the winter, the sun doesn’t come up above the horizon. The inventor of Linux was born in Helsinki, the capital of Finland.

Finland’s education system has a daycare program for babies and toddlers, a one-year preschool for six-year-olds, and finally an 11-year compulsory comprehensive school for ages 7 to 18. University is also free in Finland. Finland is known to have one of the best education systems in the entire world. 

Finnish people also drink a lot of coffee. They drink up to 4 cups a day! In one year, an average Finnish person drinks 12 kilograms of coffee! Finland has the highest milk and coffee consumption in the world. It’s thought that people in Finland drink a lot of coffee because of the extreme cold in Finland. Temperatures go as low as 40 degrees celsius in the winter(40 degrees Fahrenheit). 
